README.md, before:


# MarkupSimpleNavigation 1.2.0

## Basic usage

Once installed you can load the module in your template code on demand using $modules variable:

```php
$menu = $modules->get("MarkupSimpleNavigation");
```

Simplest is to call render method with no options. It will return the markup string with a
nested UL markup tree on all levels expanded from the root page "/". Containing "parent"
and "current" class attributes on anchors by default. It doesn't print out directly so
you need to use echo to output the markup. This also allows to further manipulate the
returned string or pass it further from when using it in another function.

```php
$treeMenu = $modules->get("MarkupSimpleNavigation"); // load the module
echo $treeMenu->render(); // render default menu
```

**Arguments:**

The render() method accepts some configuration options.

render($options, $page, $rootPage)

- `$options`, is an array of options
- `$page`, is a page object for the current page
- `$rootPage`, is a page object for the root of the menu


## Default options


```php
$options = array(
    'parent_class' => 'parent',
    'current_class' => 'current',
    'has_children_class' => 'has_children',
    'levels' => true,
    'levels_prefix' => 'level-',
    'max_levels' => null,
    'firstlast' => false,
    'collapsed' => false,
    'show_root' => false,
    'selector' => '',
    'outer_tpl' => '<ul>||</ul>',
    'inner_tpl' => '<ul>||</ul>',
    'list_tpl' => '<li%s>||</li>',
    'list_field_class' => '',
    'item_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    'item_current_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    'xtemplates' => '',
    'xitem_tpl' => '<span>{title}</span>',
    'xitem_current_tpl' => '<span>{title}</span>'
);
echo $treeMenu->render($options);
```
### Same with comments

```php
$options = array(

    'parent_class' => 'parent',
    // overwrite class name for current parent levels

    'current_class' => 'current',
    // overwrite current class

    'has_children_class' => 'has_children',
    // overwrite class name for entries with children

    'levels' => true,
    // wether to output "level-1, level-2, ..." as css class in links

    'levels_prefix' => 'level-',
    // prefix string that will be used for level class

    'max_levels' => null,
    // set the max level rendered

    'firstlast' => false,
    // puts last,first class to link items

    'collapsed' => false,
    // if you want to auto-collapse the tree you set this to true

    'show_root' => false,
    // set this to true if you want to rootPage to get prepended to the menu

    'selector' => '',
    // define custom PW selector, you may sanitize values from user input

    'outer_tpl' => '<ul>||</ul>',
    // template string for the outer most wrapper. || will contain entries

    'inner_tpl' => '<ul>||</ul>',
    // template string for inner wrappers. || will contain entries

    'list_tpl' => '<li%s>||</li>',
    // template string for the items. || will contain entries, %s will replaced with class="..." string

    'list_field_class' => '', // string (default '') add custom classes to each list_tpl using tags like {field} i.e. {template} p_{id}

    'item_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    // template string for the inner items. Use {anyfield} and {url}, i.e. {headline|title}, if field is of type image it will return url to image (first image if multiple)

    'item_current_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    // template string for the active inner items.

    'xtemplates' => '',
    // specify one or more templates separated with a pipe | to use the xitem_tpl and xitem_current_tpl markup

    'xitem_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    // same as 'item_tpl' but for xtemplates pages, can be used to define placholders

    'xitem_current_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>'
    // same as 'item_current_tpl' but for xtemplates pages
);
echo $treeMenu->render($options);
```

## Overwrite current page or root page

If you want to overwrite starting point for the root page to be another page you could do it like this:

```php
$rootPage = $pages->get("/en/"); // or any other page that has subpages
echo $treeMenu->render(null, null, $rootPage); // null at first is to not have to specify options, just use default
```

Or to even overwrite the current active page

```php
$currentPage = $pages->get(1242);
$rootPage = $pages->get("/en/");
echo $treeMenu->render(null, $currentPage, $rootPage);
```

## Default markup output example

```html
    <ul>
        <li><a href='/'>Home</a></li>
        <li class='parent has_children'><a href='/about/'>About22</a>
            <ul>
                <li><a href='/about/what/'>Child page example 1</a></li>
                <li><a href='/about/background/'>Child page example 2</a></li>
                <li class='parent has_children'><a href='/about/test/'>test</a>
                    <ul>
                        <li class='current'><a href='/about/test/test2/'>test2</a></li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
            </ul>
            </li>
        <li class='has_children'><a href='/templates/'>Templates</a>
            <ul>
                <li><a href='/templates/template2/'>template2</a></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li><a href='/site-map/'>Site Map</a></li>
    </ul>
```

## new hook added for getTagsString() (new in 1.2.0)

Added MarkupSimpleNavigation::getItemString(), now can also be used to hook into the item tpl parsing to modify or change the output.

## hook for custom list classes (new in 1.1.9)

You can now also hook into the class string added to list templates. This example can be used in templates and adds a additional "youclass" to the page with id 1001.

```js
$nav = $modules->get("MarkupSimpleNavigation");

function hookGetListClass(HookEvent $event){
    $child = $event->arguments('page'); // current rendered child page
    $class = $event->arguments('class'); // the class string already present

    // any API check on that child
    if($child->id == 1001){
        $event->return .= " yourclass"; // add your custom class to the existing
    }
}

// setup the hook after on ___getListClass($class, $page) method
$nav->addHookAfter('getListClass', null, 'hookGetListClass');
echo $nav->render();
```


## alternative urls (new in 1.1.8)

You can now use page fields to set an alternative redirect url to another page. For example {pagefieldname|url} for a item href. Where `pagefieldname` is a page field setup to dereference as "single or false" which is used to get a url to another page.

Usage i.e:

```item_tpl' => "<a href='{redirect_page|url}'>{title}</a>```

## "list field class" option (new in 1.1.6)

You can optionally define custom classes using a string that can contain tags for field names of pages.
For example `'list_field_class' => '{template} p{id}'`, will add `' basic-page p1001'` to each `list_tpl` class string.

## "xtemplates" Markup templates (new in 1.1.5)

You can now define custom markup for the item tpl's for pages with template(s) specified using `xtemplates`.
You can specify multiple templates by using `'basic-page|news'`.
Items with this templates will then use the `xitem_tpl'` and `xitem_current_tpl` instead of the standard `item_tpl` and `item_current_tpl`.

## Markup templates (new in 1.1.0)

If you want to define your own markup for the output you can use the options template to overwrite default.

Classes placeholder `%s`
is used in either list or inner list item to define where the classes will be appended (current, parent, etc)

Fields placeholder `{anyfield}`
Can be used on item tpl to output fields you want. You can also use `{headline|title}` so if headline is
empty it will chose title. If it's an image field, it will return the url to image. To output url you
just use `{url}`.


## Installation

1. Put the module folder named as MarkupSimpleNavigation into your site/modules/ folder
2. Go to modules install page and click "check for new modules"
3. Install the module. The module appears under "Markup" section.

Commit message:

added support for nav_selector property/field to use as selector for a child page and selector_leveln

README.md, after:


# MarkupSimpleNavigation 1.1.9

## Basic usage

Once installed you can load the module in your template code on demand using $modules variable:

```php
$menu = $modules->get("MarkupSimpleNavigation");
```

Simplest is to call render method with no options. It will return the markup string with a
nested UL markup tree on all levels expanded from the root page "/". Containing "parent"
and "current" class attributes on anchors by default. It doesn't print out directly so
you need to use echo to output the markup. This also allows to further manipulate the
returned string or pass it further from when using it in another function.

```php
$treeMenu = $modules->get("MarkupSimpleNavigation"); // load the module
echo $treeMenu->render(); // render default menu
```

**Arguments:**

The render() method accepts some configuration options.

render($options, $page, $rootPage)

- `$options`, is an array of options
- `$page`, is a page object for the current page
- `$rootPage`, is a page object for the root of the menu


## Default options


```php
$options = array(
    'parent_class' => 'parent',
    'current_class' => 'current',
    'has_children_class' => 'has_children',
    'levels' => true,
    'levels_prefix' => 'level-',
    'max_levels' => null,
    'firstlast' => false,
    'collapsed' => false,
    'show_root' => false,
    'selector' => '',
    'outer_tpl' => '<ul>||</ul>',
    'inner_tpl' => '<ul>||</ul>',
    'list_tpl' => '<li%s>||</li>',
    'list_field_class' => '',
    'item_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    'item_current_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    'xtemplates' => '',
    'xitem_tpl' => '<span>{title}</span>',
    'xitem_current_tpl' => '<span>{title}</span>'
)
echo $treeMenu->render($options);
```
### Same with comments

```php
$options = array(

    'parent_class' => 'parent',
    // overwrite class name for current parent levels

    'current_class' => 'current',
    // overwrite current class

    'has_children_class' => 'has_children',
    // overwrite class name for entries with children

    'levels' => true,
    // wether to output "level-1, level-2, ..." as css class in links

    'levels_prefix' => 'level-',
    // prefix string that will be used for level class

    'max_levels' => null,
    // set the max level rendered

    'firstlast' => false,
    // puts last,first class to link items

    'collapsed' => false,
    // if you want to auto-collapse the tree you set this to true

    'show_root' => false,
    // set this to true if you want to rootPage to get prepended to the menu

    'selector' => '',
    // define custom PW selector, you may sanitize values from user input

    'outer_tpl' => '<ul>||</ul>',
    // template string for the outer most wrapper. || will contain entries

    'inner_tpl' => '<ul>||</ul>',
    // template string for inner wrappers. || will contain entries

    'list_tpl' => '<li%s>||</li>',
    // template string for the items. || will contain entries, %s will replaced with class="..." string

    'list_field_class' => '', // string (default '') add custom classes to each list_tpl using tags like {field} i.e. {template} p_{id}

    'item_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    // template string for the inner items. Use {anyfield} and {url}, i.e. {headline|title}, if field is of type image it will return url to image (first image if multiple)

    'item_current_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    // template string for the active inner items.

    'xtemplates' => '',
    // specify one or more templates separated with a pipe | to use the xitem_tpl and xitem_current_tpl markup

    'xitem_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>',
    // same as 'item_tpl' but for xtemplates pages, can be used to define placholders

    'xitem_current_tpl' => '<a href="{url}">{title}</a>'
    // same as 'item_current_tpl' but for xtemplates pages
)
echo $treeMenu->render($options);
```

## Overwrite current page or root page

If you want to overwrite starting point for the root page to be another page you could do it like this:

```php
$rootPage = $pages->get("/en/"); // or any other page that has subpages
echo $treeMenu->render(null, null, $rootPage); // null at first is to not have to specify options, just use default
```

Or to even overwrite the current active page

```php
$currentPage = $pages->get(1242);
$rootPage = $pages->get("/en/");
echo $treeMenu->render(null, $currentPage, $rootPage);
```

## Default markup output example

```html
    <ul>
        <li><a href='/'>Home</a></li>
        <li class='parent has_children'><a href='/about/'>About22</a>
            <ul>
                <li><a href='/about/what/'>Child page example 1</a></li>
                <li><a href='/about/background/'>Child page example 2</a></li>
                <li class='parent has_children'><a href='/about/test/'>test</a>
                    <ul>
                        <li class='current'><a href='/about/test/test2/'>test2</a></li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
            </ul>
            </li>
        <li class='has_children'><a href='/templates/'>Templates</a>
            <ul>
                <li><a href='/templates/template2/'>template2</a></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li><a href='/site-map/'>Site Map</a></li>
    </ul>
```
## added support for nav_selector property/field and selector_leveln (new in 1.2.1)

You can now add property to page(s) to define custom selector for rendering their children. This can be done on runtime or via a custom field added to pages. You can configure the name of the field by using the newly added option "selector_field". MarkupSimpleNavigation will look out for it and use it, otherwise it will use the "selector" option.

You can now define selector on a per level basis. Simply use the _leveln suffix on the "selector" option, where n is the level number from the root parent. This is best illustrated by the following example:

```php

$pages->get(1001)->my_selector = "start=0,limit=3";

$options = array(
  "selector_level2" => "start=0, limit=10",
  "selector_level3" => "start=0, limit=20",
  "selector_field" => "my_selector"
);

echo $nav->render($options);
```

Note that "my_selector" has priority and will overwrite any other selctor or selector_leveln


## hook for custom list classes (new in 1.1.9)

You can now also hook into the class string added to list templates. This example can be used in templates and adds a additional "youclass" to the page with id 1001.

```php
$nav = $modules->get("MarkupSimpleNavigation");

function hookGetListClass(HookEvent $event){
    $child = $event->arguments('page'); // current rendered child page
    $class = $event->arguments('class'); // the class string already present

    // any API check on that child
    if($child->id == 1001){
        $event->return .= " yourclass"; // add your custom class to the existing
    }
}

// setup the hook after on ___getListClass($class, $page) method
$nav->addHookAfter('getListClass', null, 'hookGetListClass');
echo $nav->render();
```


## alternative urls (new in 1.1.8)

You can now use page fields to set an alternative redirect url to another page. For example {pagefieldname|url} for a item href. Where `pagefieldname` is a page field setup to dereference as "single or false" which is used to get a url to another page.

Usage i.e:

```item_tpl' => "<a href='{redirect_page|url}'>{title}</a>```

## "list field class" option (new in 1.1.6)

You can optionally define custom classes using a string that can contain tags for field names of pages.
For example `'list_field_class' => '{template} p{id}'`, will add `' basic-page p1001'` to each `list_tpl` class string.

## "xtemplates" Markup templates (new in 1.1.5)

You can now define custom markup for the item tpl's for pages with template(s) specified using `xtemplates`.
You can specify multiple templates by using `'basic-page|news'`.
Items with this templates will then use the `xitem_tpl'` and `xitem_current_tpl` instead of the standard `item_tpl` and `item_current_tpl`.

## Markup templates (new in 1.1.0)

If you want to define your own markup for the output you can use the options template to overwrite default.

Classes placeholder `%s`
is used in either list or inner list item to define where the classes will be appended (current, parent, etc)

Fields placeholder `{anyfield}`
Can be used on item tpl to output fields you want. You can also use `{headline|title}` so if headline is
empty it will chose title. If it's an image field, it will return the url to image. To output url you
just use `{url}`.


## Installation

1. Put the module folder named as MarkupSimpleNavigation into your site/modules/ folder
2. Go to modules install page and click "check for new modules"
3. Install the module. The module appears under "Markup" section.
